Chapter7 Input and Output
7.4 Other Standard I/O Functions
7.4.4 Binary I/O: fread() and fwrite()
The fread() and fwrite() functions are next on the list, but first some background. The
standard I/O functions you’ve used to this point are text oriented, dealing with characters and
strings. What if you want to save numeric data in a file? True, you can use fprintf() and the
%f format to save a floating-point value, but then you are saving it as a sequence of characters.
For example, the code
double num = 1./3.;
fprintf(fp,"%f", num);
saves num as a sequence of eight characters: 0.333333 . Using a %.2f specifier saves it as four
characters: 0.33 . Using a %.12f specifier saves it as 14 characters: 0.333333333333 . Changing
the specifier alters the amount of space needed to store the value; it can also result in different
values being stored. After the value of num is stored as 0.33 , there is no way to get back the
full precision when the file is read. In general, fprintf() converts numeric values to character
data, possibly altering the value.
The most accurate and consistent way to store a number is to use the same pattern of bits that
the computer does. Therefore, a double value should be stored in a size double unit. When
data is stored in a file using the same representation that the program uses, we say that the data
is stored in binary form . There is no conversion from numeric forms to character sequences. For
standard I/O, the fread() and fwrite() functions provide this binary service.
Actually, as you probably recall, all data is stored in binary form. Even characters are stored
using the binary representation of the character code. However, if all data in the file is interpreted
as character codes, we say that the file contains text data. If some or all of the data is
interpreted as numeric data in binary form, we say that the file contains binary data. (Also, files
in which the data represents machine-language instructions are binary files.)
The uses of the terms binary and text can get confusing. ANSI C recognizes two modes for
opening files: binary and text. Many operating systems recognize two file formats: binary and
text. Information can be stored or read as binary data or as text data. These are all related,
but not identical. You can open a text format file in the binary mode. You can store text in
a binary format file. You can use getc() to copy files containing binary data. In general,
however, you use the binary mode to store binary data in a binary format file. Similarly, you
most often use text data in text files opened in the text format. (Files produced by word processors
typically are binary files because they contain a lot of nontext information describing fonts
and formatting.)